chaincfg/README.md, before:

chaincfg
========

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg/v3)

Package chaincfg defines chain configuration parameters for the four standard
Decred networks.

Although this package was primarily written for dcrd, it has intentionally been
designed so it can be used as a standalone package for any projects needing to
use parameters for the standard Decred networks or for projects needing to
define their own network.

## Sample Use

```Go
package main

import (
	"flag"
	"fmt"
	"log"

	"github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/v2"
	"github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg/v2"
)

var testnet = flag.Bool("testnet", false, "operate on the testnet Decred network")

// By default (without -testnet), use mainnet.
var chainParams = chaincfg.MainNetParams()

func main() {
	flag.Parse()

	// Modify active network parameters if operating on testnet.
	if *testnet {
		chainParams = chaincfg.TestNet3Params()
	}

	// later...

	// Create and print new payment address, specific to the active network.
	pubKeyHash := make([]byte, 20)
	addr, err := btcutil.NewAddressPubKeyHash(pubKeyHash, chainParams)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	fmt.Println(addr)
}
```

## Installation and Updating

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg
```

## License

Package chaincfg is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.

Commit message:

multi: Update README.md files for go modules.
This updates the installation and updating section of the README.md
files in the various packages to call out the module they are a part of
and instruct the consumer to use the standard go tooling instead of the
old, and no longer correct, package-based 'go get -u' instructions.

chaincfg/README.md, after:

chaincfg
========

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg/v3)

Package chaincfg defines chain configuration parameters for the four standard
Decred networks.

Although this package was primarily written for dcrd, it has intentionally been
designed so it can be used as a standalone package for any projects needing to
use parameters for the standard Decred networks or for projects needing to
define their own network.

## Sample Use

```Go
package main

import (
	"flag"
	"fmt"
	"log"

	"github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/v2"
	"github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg/v2"
)

var testnet = flag.Bool("testnet", false, "operate on the testnet Decred network")

// By default (without -testnet), use mainnet.
var chainParams = chaincfg.MainNetParams()

func main() {
	flag.Parse()

	// Modify active network parameters if operating on testnet.
	if *testnet {
		chainParams = chaincfg.TestNet3Params()
	}

	// later...

	// Create and print new payment address, specific to the active network.
	pubKeyHash := make([]byte, 20)
	addr, err := btcutil.NewAddressPubKeyHash(pubKeyHash, chainParams)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
	fmt.Println(addr)
}
```

## Installation and Updating

This package is part of the `github.com/decred/dcrd/chaincfg/v3` module.  Use
the standard go tooling for working with modules to incorporate it.

## License

Package chaincfg is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.
