dcrutil/txsort/README.md, before:

txsort
======

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/v4/txsort)

Package txsort provides stable transaction sorting.

This package implements a standard lexicographical sort order of transaction
inputs and outputs.  This is useful to standardize transactions for faster
multi-party agreement as well as preventing information leaks in a single-party
use case.  It is a modified form of BIP69 which has been updated to account for
differences with Decred-specific transactions.

The sort order for transaction inputs is defined as follows:
- Previous transaction tree in ascending order
- Previous transaction hash (treated as a big-endian uint256) lexicographically
  in ascending order
- Previous output index in ascending order

The sort order for transaction outputs is defined as follows:
- Amount in ascending order
- Public key script version in ascending order
- Raw public key script bytes lexicographically in ascending order

A comprehensive suite of tests is provided to ensure proper functionality.

## Installation and Updating

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/txsort
```

## License

Package txsort is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.

Commit message:

multi: Update README.md files for go modules.
This updates the installation and updating section of the README.md
files in the various packages to call out the module they are a part of
and instruct the consumer to use the standard go tooling instead of the
old, and no longer correct, package-based 'go get -u' instructions.

dcrutil/txsort/README.md, after:

txsort
======

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/v4/txsort)

Package txsort provides stable transaction sorting.

This package implements a standard lexicographical sort order of transaction
inputs and outputs.  This is useful to standardize transactions for faster
multi-party agreement as well as preventing information leaks in a single-party
use case.  It is a modified form of BIP69 which has been updated to account for
differences with Decred-specific transactions.

The sort order for transaction inputs is defined as follows:
- Previous transaction tree in ascending order
- Previous transaction hash (treated as a big-endian uint256) lexicographically
  in ascending order
- Previous output index in ascending order

The sort order for transaction outputs is defined as follows:
- Amount in ascending order
- Public key script version in ascending order
- Raw public key script bytes lexicographically in ascending order

A comprehensive suite of tests is provided to ensure proper functionality.

## Installation and Updating

This package is part of the `github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrutil/v3` module.  Use the
standard go tooling for working with modules to incorporate it.

## License

Package txsort is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.
