blockchain/fullblocktests/README.md, before:

fullblocktests
==============

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/blockchain/v3/fullblocktests)

Package fullblocktests provides a set of full block tests to be used for testing
the consensus validation rules.  The tests are intended to be flexible enough to
allow both unit-style tests directly against the blockchain code as well as
integration style tests over the peer-to-peer network.  To achieve that goal,
each test contains additional information about the expected result, however
that information can be ignored when doing comparison tests between two
independent versions over the peer-to-peer network.

This package has intentionally been designed so it can be used as a standalone
package for any projects needing to test their implementation against a full set
of blocks that exercise the consensus validation rules.

## Installation and Updating

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/decred/dcrd/blockchain/fullblocktests
```

## License

Package fullblocktests is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.

Commit message:

multi: Update README.md files for go modules.
This updates the installation and updating section of the README.md
files in the various packages to call out the module they are a part of
and instruct the consumer to use the standard go tooling instead of the
old, and no longer correct, package-based 'go get -u' instructions.

blockchain/fullblocktests/README.md, after:

fullblocktests
==============

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/blockchain/v3/fullblocktests)

Package fullblocktests provides a set of full block tests to be used for testing
the consensus validation rules.  The tests are intended to be flexible enough to
allow both unit-style tests directly against the blockchain code as well as
integration style tests over the peer-to-peer network.  To achieve that goal,
each test contains additional information about the expected result, however
that information can be ignored when doing comparison tests between two
independent versions over the peer-to-peer network.

This package has intentionally been designed so it can be used as a standalone
package for any projects needing to test their implementation against a full set
of blocks that exercise the consensus validation rules.

## Installation and Updating

This package is part of the `github.com/decred/dcrd/blockchain/v3` module.  Use
the standard go tooling for working with modules to incorporate it.

## License

Package fullblocktests is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.
