dcrec/secp256k1/README.md, before:

secp256k1
=========

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v4)

Package secp256k1 implements optimized secp256k1 elliptic curve operations.

This package provides an optimized pure Go implementation of elliptic curve
cryptography operations over the secp256k1 curve as well as data structures and
functions for working with public and private secp256k1 keys.  See
https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf for details on the standard.

In addition, sub packages are provided to produce, verify, parse, and serialize
ECDSA signatures and EC-Schnorr-DCRv0 (a custom Schnorr-based signature scheme
specific to Decred) signatures.  See the README.md files in the relevant sub
packages for more details about those aspects.

An overview of the features provided by this package are as follows:

- Private key generation, serialization, and parsing
- Public key generation, serialization and parsing per ANSI X9.62-1998
  - Parses uncompressed, compressed, and hybrid public keys
  - Serializes uncompressed and compressed public keys
- Specialized types for performing optimized and constant time field operations
  - `FieldVal` type for working modulo the secp256k1 field prime
  - `ModNScalar` type for working modulo the secp256k1 group order
- Elliptic curve operations in Jacobian projective coordinates
  - Point addition
  - Point doubling
  - Scalar multiplication with an arbitrary point
  - Scalar multiplication with the base point (group generator)
- Point decompression from a given x coordinate
- Nonce generation via RFC6979 with support for extra data and version
  information that can be used to prevent nonce reuse between signing algorithms

It also provides an implementation of the Go standard library `crypto/elliptic`
`Curve` interface via the `S256` function so that it may be used with other
packages in the standard library such as `crypto/tls`, `crypto/x509`, and
`crypto/ecdsa`.  However, in the case of ECDSA, it is highly recommended to use
the `ecdsa` sub package of this package instead since it is optimized
specifically for secp256k1 and is significantly faster as a result.

Although this package was primarily written for dcrd, it has intentionally been
designed so it can be used as a standalone package for any projects needing to
use optimized secp256k1 elliptic curve cryptography.

Finally, a comprehensive suite of tests is provided to provide a high level of
quality assurance.

## secp256k1 use in Decred

At the time of this writing, the primary public key cryptography in widespread
use on the Decred network used to secure coins is based on elliptic curves
defined by the secp256k1 domain parameters.

## Installation and Updating

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v3
```

## Examples

* [Encryption](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v4#example-package-EncryptDecryptMessage)
  Demonstrates encrypting and decrypting a message using a shared key derived
  through ECDHE.

## License

Package secp256k1 is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.

Commit message:

multi: Update README.md files for go modules.
This updates the installation and updating section of the README.md
files in the various packages to call out the module they are a part of
and instruct the consumer to use the standard go tooling instead of the
old, and no longer correct, package-based 'go get -u' instructions.

dcrec/secp256k1/README.md, after:

secp256k1
=========

[![Build Status](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/workflows/Build%20and%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/decred/dcrd/actions)
[![ISC License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-ISC-blue.svg)](http://copyfree.org)
[![Doc](https://img.shields.io/badge/doc-reference-blue.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v4)

Package secp256k1 implements optimized secp256k1 elliptic curve operations.

This package provides an optimized pure Go implementation of elliptic curve
cryptography operations over the secp256k1 curve as well as data structures and
functions for working with public and private secp256k1 keys.  See
https://www.secg.org/sec2-v2.pdf for details on the standard.

In addition, sub packages are provided to produce, verify, parse, and serialize
ECDSA signatures and EC-Schnorr-DCRv0 (a custom Schnorr-based signature scheme
specific to Decred) signatures.  See the README.md files in the relevant sub
packages for more details about those aspects.

An overview of the features provided by this package are as follows:

- Private key generation, serialization, and parsing
- Public key generation, serialization and parsing per ANSI X9.62-1998
  - Parses uncompressed, compressed, and hybrid public keys
  - Serializes uncompressed and compressed public keys
- Specialized types for performing optimized and constant time field operations
  - `FieldVal` type for working modulo the secp256k1 field prime
  - `ModNScalar` type for working modulo the secp256k1 group order
- Elliptic curve operations in Jacobian projective coordinates
  - Point addition
  - Point doubling
  - Scalar multiplication with an arbitrary point
  - Scalar multiplication with the base point (group generator)
- Point decompression from a given x coordinate
- Nonce generation via RFC6979 with support for extra data and version
  information that can be used to prevent nonce reuse between signing algorithms

It also provides an implementation of the Go standard library `crypto/elliptic`
`Curve` interface via the `S256` function so that it may be used with other
packages in the standard library such as `crypto/tls`, `crypto/x509`, and
`crypto/ecdsa`.  However, in the case of ECDSA, it is highly recommended to use
the `ecdsa` sub package of this package instead since it is optimized
specifically for secp256k1 and is significantly faster as a result.

Although this package was primarily written for dcrd, it has intentionally been
designed so it can be used as a standalone package for any projects needing to
use optimized secp256k1 elliptic curve cryptography.

Finally, a comprehensive suite of tests is provided to provide a high level of
quality assurance.

## secp256k1 use in Decred

At the time of this writing, the primary public key cryptography in widespread
use on the Decred network used to secure coins is based on elliptic curves
defined by the secp256k1 domain parameters.

## Installation and Updating

This package is part of the `github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v3` module.
Use the standard go tooling for working with modules to incorporate it.

## Examples

* [Encryption](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/decred/dcrd/dcrec/secp256k1/v4#example-package-EncryptDecryptMessage)
  Demonstrates encrypting and decrypting a message using a shared key derived
  through ECDHE.

## License

Package secp256k1 is licensed under the [copyfree](http://copyfree.org) ISC
License.
